README.md, before:

# php-fpm-cli

Running PHP-FPM, especially for website hosts using NGINX, is missing an important functionality to execute PHP scripts directly from the command-line.

With this simple script, one can execute PHP scripts directly from CLI. It is convenient to test PHP in CLI, run batch operations with PHP and for cronjobs.

This script is based on [Mathias Leppich's gist][1], with added support for loading the script from a file (instead of input code as CLI argument), query-string parameters and verification of not only the exit code of the script - but also http-status-code.

See more details in: https://elisegev.medium.com/running-php-fpm-in-cli-e1f0f4b4f59a

## Requirements

### Dependencies

RHEL / CentOS
```shell script
yum --enablerepo=epel install fcgi
```

Ubuntu / Debian
```shell script
apt-get install libfcgi0ldbl
```

### Setup

PHP script needs to be executable and owned by an allowed user (ACL):
```shell script
vi /etc/php-fpm.d/www.conf
# add your ACL user to the comma-delimited list: listen.acl_users
# e.g. listen.acl_users = apache,nginx,myuser
systemctl restart php-fpm
```

## Usage

Run PHP script:
```shell script
./php-fqm-cli -f <path_to_php_file>
```

Run PHP script with query params:
```shell script
./php-fqm-cli -f <path_to_php_file> -q "<query_params>"
```

Example:
```shell script
./php-fqm-cli -f myscript.php -q "param1=val1&param2=val2"
```

[1]: https://gist.github.com/muhqu/91497df3a110f594b992

Commit message:

feat: add support for passing in a request method or URL to simulate

README.md, after:

# php-fpm-cli

Running PHP-FPM, especially for website hosts using NGINX, is missing the important ability to execute PHP scripts directly from the command-line while simulating the website context.

With this simple script, one can execute PHP scripts that are normally called via PHP-FPM, directly from CLI. This can be used for testing, batch operations, or cronjobs.

This script is based on [Mathias Leppich's gist][1], with added support for:
* loading the script from a file (instead of input code as CLI argument)
* query-string parameters
* verification of not only the exit code of the script, but also http-status-code.
* guessing of `$_SERVER` variables given a URL to simulate

See more details in [this Medium post](https://elisegev.medium.com/running-php-fpm-in-cli-e1f0f4b4f59a).

## Requirements

### Dependencies

RHEL / CentOS
```shell script
yum --enablerepo=epel install fcgi
```

Ubuntu / Debian
```shell script
apt-get install libfcgi0ldbl
```

### Setup

The PHP script being executed needs to be executable and owned by an user allowed by the PHP-FPM configuration, so you may need to update it:
```shell script
vi /etc/php-fpm.d/www.conf
# add your ACL user to the comma-delimited list: listen.acl_users
# e.g. listen.acl_users = apache,nginx,myuser
systemctl restart php-fpm
```

## Usage

The script will send the given PHP file to the PHP-FPM process and echo the response to STDOUT.

```shell script
./php-fqm-cli -f </path/to/php/file> -q "<query_params>" [-connect <connection>] [-m <GET|POST>] [-u <URL>]
```

Parameters:
| Flag | Description | Default | Example |
| ---- | ----------- | ------- | ------- |
| `-f` | Required path to the PHP file | | `/var/www/html/index.php` |
| `-connect` | Optional PHP-FPM host and port, or path to a socket. | `/run/php-fpm/www.sock` | `127.0.0.1:9000` |
| `-m` | Request method, GET or POST | GET | |
| `-u` | Optional URL to simulate. Only PHP files directly under the document root are currently supported. You may need to include `/index.php` since we don't have Apache RewriteRules. | | `https://www.mydomain.com/index.php` |


Using query parameters:
```shell script
./php-fqm-cli -f myscript.php -q "param1=val1&param2=val2"
```

Using a URL:
```shell script
./php-fqm-cli -f /var/www/html/myscript.php -connect 127.0.0.1:9000 -u https://www.mydomain.com/index.php
```

[1]: https://gist.github.com/muhqu/91497df3a110f594b992
